docs/content/drasi-kubernetes/how-to-guides/configure-sources/configure-azure-eventhub-source/_index.md, before:

---
type: "docs"
title: "Connect to Azure EventHub"
linkTitle: "Connect to Azure EventHub"
weight: 70
description: >
    Learn how to configure an Azure EventHub Source to connect to an Azure EventHub
---

The Event Hubs source enables messages streaming through Azure Event Hubs to be mapped into graph nodes that can be referenced by a continuous query.
It can observe multiple Event Hubs within the same Event Hubs namespace.

## Data Model

Each incoming message from an Event Hub will create a graph node in Drasi's graph database. The mapping follows these rules:

- **Node Label**: The label of the created node will be the name of the Event Hub from which the message originated.
- **Node Properties**: The properties of the node will be the JSON object contained in the Event Hub message body.
- **Change Type**: All EventHub messages are processed as **insert** operations, meaning each message creates a new node in the graph, if it already exists it is updated.

For example, if you have an Event Hub named `vehicle-telemetry` and it receives a message with the following JSON payload:

```json
{
    "vehicleId": "truck-001",
    "speed": 65,
    "location": {
        "lat": 47.6062,
        "lng": -122.3321
    },
    "timestamp": "2024-01-15T10:30:00Z"
}
```

This will create a graph node that can be queried using Cypher as follows:

```cypher
MATCH (v:`vehicle-telemetry`)
RETURN v.vehicleId, v.speed, v.location.lat, v.timestamp
```

**Important Note on Event Hub Names**: Event Hub names commonly contain dashes (e.g., `vehicle-telemetry`, `order-events`). When referencing these labels in Cypher queries, you must escape them using backticks since dashes are not valid characters in unescaped Cypher identifiers.

### Using Middleware for Schema Transformation

While the default mapping creates nodes with the Event Hub name as the label, you can use [middleware](/concepts/middleware/) to transform the incoming data into a different graph schema. This is particularly useful when:

- You want to normalize data from multiple Event Hubs into a common schema
- You need to extract nested properties to top-level nodes
- You want to create relationships between different message types
- You need to filter or conditionally process messages

For example, using the **map** middleware, you could transform the vehicle telemetry data into a more structured schema:

```yaml
middleware:
  - kind: map
    name: vehicle-mapper
    vehicle-telemetry:
      insert:
        - selector: $
          op: Insert
          label: Vehicle
          id: $.vehicleId
          properties:
            id: $.vehicleId
            currentSpeed: $.speed
            lastUpdate: $.timestamp
```

This would create `Vehicle` nodes instead of `vehicle-telemetry` nodes, allowing for cleaner Cypher queries:

```cypher
MATCH (v:Vehicle)
RETURN v.id, v.currentSpeed, v.lastUpdate
```


## Requirements
On the computer from where you will create the Source, you need the following software:
- [Drasi CLI](/reference/command-line-interface/) 
- [Azure CLI](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/) (If using Azure Managed Identities)


## Creating the Source
To create a Source, execute the `drasi apply` command as follows:

```text
drasi apply -f my-source.yaml
```

The `drasi apply` command is how you create all new Drasi resources (in this case a Source). The `-f` flag specifies that the definition of the new Source is contained in the referenced YAML file `my-source.yaml`.

## Source Definitions
The YAML file passed to `drasi apply` can contain one or more Source definitions. Here is an example of an EventHub source definition:

```yaml
kind: Source
apiVersion: v1
name: my-source
spec:
  kind: EventHub
  properties:
    connectionString: <connecting string>
    host: <Fully qualified EventHub namespace, eg. my-hubs.servicebus.windows.net>
    eventHubs:
      - hub1
      - hub2
    bootstrapWindow: 0
```
In the Source resource definition:

- **apiVersion** must be **v1**
- **kind** must be **Source**
- **name** is the **id** of the Source and must be unique. This id is used in a Continuous Query definitions to identify which Sources the Continuous Query subscribes to for change events.
- **spec.kind** must be **EventHub**

The following table describes the EventHub specific properties:
|Property|Description|
|-|-|
|connectionString|Connection string for the Event Hubs endpoint. This is only required if not using Managed Identities.|
|host|Fully qualified EventHub namespace, eg. `my-hubs.servicebus.windows.net`. This is only required when using Managed Identities.|
|eventHubs|A list of Event Hubs within the Event Hubs namespace to observe|
|bootstrapWindow|When a query bootstraps, it can also fetch all the messages for the previous (n) minutes.  This value defines how many minutes of backfill data to bootstrap the query with.|

### Secret Configuration

It is best practice to store the connection string to your Event Hubs instance in a secret.

```bash
kubectl create secret generic eventhub-creds --from-literal=eventHubConnectionString=...
```

You can then reference the secret when you create an Event Hub source as follows:

```yaml
kind: Source
apiVersion: v1
name: my-source
spec:
  kind: EventHub
  properties:
    connectionString: 
      kind: Secret
      name: eventhub-creds
      key: eventHubConnectionString
    eventHubs:
      - hub1
      - hub2
    bootstrapWindow: 0
```

### Identity

The source supports the following service identities:

#### Microsoft Entra Workload ID

Microsoft Entra Workload Identity enables your source to authenticate to Azure without the need to store sensitive credentials. It works by creating a federated identity between a [managed identity](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity/managed-identities-azure-resources/overview) and the service account the source is running against.

| Property | Description |
|-|-|
| kind | MicrosoftEntraWorkloadID |
| clientId | The Client ID of the user managed identity.|

##### Example

```yaml
kind: Source
apiVersion: v1
name: my-source
spec:
  kind: EventHub
  identity:
    kind: MicrosoftEntraWorkloadID
    clientId: <Client ID of Managed Identity>
  properties:
    host: <Fully qualified EventHub namespace, eg. my-hubs.servicebus.windows.net>
    eventHubs:
      - hub1
      - hub2
    bootstrapWindow: 0
```

##### AKS Setup

1. On the Azure portal, navigate to the `Security configuration` pane of your AKS cluster.
1. Ensure `Enable Workload Identity` is enabled.
1. Take note of the `Issuer URL` under OIDC.
1. Create or use an existing `User Assigned Managed Identity`.
1. Take note of the `Client ID` an the `Overview` pane of the Managed Identity.
1. Grant the `Azure Event Hubs Data Receiver` role to the managed identity in the `Access Control (IAM)` pane of the EventHub namespace.
1. Create a federated credential between the managed identity and the source.
    ```bash
    az identity federated-credential create \
        --name <Give the federated credential a unique name> \
        --identity-name "<Name of the User Assigned Managed Identity>" \
        --resource-group "<Your Resource Group>" \
        --issuer "<The Issuer URL from your AKS cluster OIDC configuration>" \
        --subject system:serviceaccount:"drasi-system":"source.<Name of your Source>" \
        --audience api://AzureADTokenExchange
    ```


##### Related links
* [What are managed identities for Azure resources](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity/managed-identities-azure-resources/overview)
* [What are workload identities](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/workload-id/workload-identities-overview)
* [Azure AD Workload Identity Docs](https://azure.github.io/azure-workload-identity/docs/introduction.html)
* [Deploy and configure workload identity on an Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) cluster](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/workload-identity-deploy-cluster)
* [Use Microsoft Entra Workload ID with Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/workload-identity-overview)


## Inspecting the Source

You can check the status of the Source using the `drasi list` command:

```text
drasi list source
```

This will return a simple list of all Sources in the current namespace and their overall status. For example:

```
        ID          | AVAILABLE
--------------------+------------
  my-source         | true
```

If an error has occurred during the creation or operation of a Source, the `AVAILABLE` column will contain the error text instead of `true` or `false`.

For more details about the Source you can use the [drasi describe](/reference/command-line-interface#drasi-describe) command:

```text
drasi describe source my-source
```

This will return the full definition used to create the Source along with more detailed status information.


## Modifying the Source
To modify the Source, you can simply use the `drasi apply` command again with the same source name that you used before.

## Deleting the Source
To delete a Source you use the `drasi delete` command. There are two ways to do this. 

Firstly, you can specify the type of resource (Source) and its name, for example:

```text
drasi delete source my-source
```

Secondly, you can refer to the YAML file(s) that contain the definitions used to create the Source(s):

```text
drasi delete -f my-source.yaml <file2.yaml> <file3.yaml> <...>
```

This is a convenience, especially if a single YAML file contains multiple Source definitions.

Commit message:

Agg glossary and related content links
Signed-off-by: Agent of Reality <agentx@agentofreality.com>

docs/content/drasi-kubernetes/how-to-guides/configure-sources/configure-azure-eventhub-source/_index.md, after:

---
type: "docs"
title: "Connect to Azure EventHub"
linkTitle: "Connect to Azure EventHub"
weight: 70
description: >
    Learn how to configure an Azure EventHub Source to connect to an Azure EventHub
related:
  tutorials:
    - title: "Getting Started with Drasi"
      url: "/drasi-kubernetes/getting-started/"
  concepts:
    - title: "Sources"
      url: "/concepts/sources/"
    - title: "Continuous Queries"
      url: "/concepts/continuous-queries/"
    - title: "Middleware"
      url: "/concepts/middleware/"
  howto:
    - title: "Write Continuous Queries"
      url: "/drasi-kubernetes/how-to-guides/write-continuous-queries/"
  reference:
    - title: "CLI Reference"
      url: "/drasi-kubernetes/reference/command-line-interface/"
    - title: "Source Provider Schema"
      url: "/reference/schema/source-provider/"
---

The Event Hubs {{< term "Source" "source" >}} enables messages streaming through Azure Event Hubs to be mapped into graph {{< term "Node" "nodes" >}} that can be referenced by a {{< term "Continuous Query" "continuous query" >}}.
It can observe multiple Event Hubs within the same Event Hubs namespace.

## Data Model

Each incoming message from an Event Hub will create a graph node in Drasi's graph database. The mapping follows these rules:

- **Node Label**: The label of the created node will be the name of the Event Hub from which the message originated.
- **Node Properties**: The properties of the node will be the JSON object contained in the Event Hub message body.
- **Change Type**: All EventHub messages are processed as **insert** operations, meaning each message creates a new node in the graph, if it already exists it is updated.

For example, if you have an Event Hub named `vehicle-telemetry` and it receives a message with the following JSON payload:

```json
{
    "vehicleId": "truck-001",
    "speed": 65,
    "location": {
        "lat": 47.6062,
        "lng": -122.3321
    },
    "timestamp": "2024-01-15T10:30:00Z"
}
```

This will create a graph node that can be queried using Cypher as follows:

```cypher
MATCH (v:`vehicle-telemetry`)
RETURN v.vehicleId, v.speed, v.location.lat, v.timestamp
```

**Important Note on Event Hub Names**: Event Hub names commonly contain dashes (e.g., `vehicle-telemetry`, `order-events`). When referencing these labels in Cypher queries, you must escape them using backticks since dashes are not valid characters in unescaped Cypher identifiers.

### Using Middleware for Schema Transformation

While the default mapping creates nodes with the Event Hub name as the label, you can use {{< term "Middleware" "middleware" >}} to transform the incoming data into a different graph schema. This is particularly useful when:

- You want to normalize data from multiple Event Hubs into a common schema
- You need to extract nested properties to top-level nodes
- You want to create relationships between different message types
- You need to filter or conditionally process messages

For example, using the **map** middleware, you could transform the vehicle telemetry data into a more structured schema:

```yaml
middleware:
  - kind: map
    name: vehicle-mapper
    vehicle-telemetry:
      insert:
        - selector: $
          op: Insert
          label: Vehicle
          id: $.vehicleId
          properties:
            id: $.vehicleId
            currentSpeed: $.speed
            lastUpdate: $.timestamp
```

This would create `Vehicle` nodes instead of `vehicle-telemetry` nodes, allowing for cleaner Cypher queries:

```cypher
MATCH (v:Vehicle)
RETURN v.id, v.currentSpeed, v.lastUpdate
```


## Requirements
On the computer from where you will create the Source, you need the following software:
- {{< term "Drasi CLI" >}}
- [Azure CLI](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/) (If using Azure Managed Identities)


## Creating the Source
To create a Source, execute the `drasi apply` command as follows:

```text
drasi apply -f my-source.yaml
```

The `drasi apply` command is how you create all new Drasi resources (in this case a Source). The `-f` flag specifies that the definition of the new Source is contained in the referenced YAML file `my-source.yaml`.

## Source Definitions
The YAML file passed to `drasi apply` can contain one or more Source definitions. Here is an example of an EventHub source definition:

```yaml
kind: Source
apiVersion: v1
name: my-source
spec:
  kind: EventHub
  properties:
    connectionString: <connecting string>
    host: <Fully qualified EventHub namespace, eg. my-hubs.servicebus.windows.net>
    eventHubs:
      - hub1
      - hub2
    bootstrapWindow: 0
```
In the Source resource definition:

- **apiVersion** must be **v1**
- **kind** must be **Source**
- **name** is the **id** of the Source and must be unique. This id is used in a Continuous Query definitions to identify which Sources the Continuous Query subscribes to for change events.
- **spec.kind** must be **EventHub**

The following table describes the EventHub specific properties:
|Property|Description|
|-|-|
|connectionString|Connection string for the Event Hubs endpoint. This is only required if not using Managed Identities.|
|host|Fully qualified EventHub namespace, eg. `my-hubs.servicebus.windows.net`. This is only required when using Managed Identities.|
|eventHubs|A list of Event Hubs within the Event Hubs namespace to observe|
|bootstrapWindow|When a query {{< term "Bootstrap" "bootstraps" >}}, it can also fetch all the messages for the previous (n) minutes.  This value defines how many minutes of backfill data to bootstrap the query with.|

### Secret Configuration

It is best practice to store the connection string to your Event Hubs instance in a secret.

```bash
kubectl create secret generic eventhub-creds --from-literal=eventHubConnectionString=...
```

You can then reference the secret when you create an Event Hub source as follows:

```yaml
kind: Source
apiVersion: v1
name: my-source
spec:
  kind: EventHub
  properties:
    connectionString: 
      kind: Secret
      name: eventhub-creds
      key: eventHubConnectionString
    eventHubs:
      - hub1
      - hub2
    bootstrapWindow: 0
```

### Identity

The source supports the following service identities:

#### Microsoft Entra Workload ID

Microsoft Entra Workload Identity enables your source to authenticate to Azure without the need to store sensitive credentials. It works by creating a federated identity between a [managed identity](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity/managed-identities-azure-resources/overview) and the service account the source is running against.

| Property | Description |
|-|-|
| kind | MicrosoftEntraWorkloadID |
| clientId | The Client ID of the user managed identity.|

##### Example

```yaml
kind: Source
apiVersion: v1
name: my-source
spec:
  kind: EventHub
  identity:
    kind: MicrosoftEntraWorkloadID
    clientId: <Client ID of Managed Identity>
  properties:
    host: <Fully qualified EventHub namespace, eg. my-hubs.servicebus.windows.net>
    eventHubs:
      - hub1
      - hub2
    bootstrapWindow: 0
```

##### AKS Setup

1. On the Azure portal, navigate to the `Security configuration` pane of your AKS cluster.
1. Ensure `Enable Workload Identity` is enabled.
1. Take note of the `Issuer URL` under OIDC.
1. Create or use an existing `User Assigned Managed Identity`.
1. Take note of the `Client ID` an the `Overview` pane of the Managed Identity.
1. Grant the `Azure Event Hubs Data Receiver` role to the managed identity in the `Access Control (IAM)` pane of the EventHub namespace.
1. Create a federated credential between the managed identity and the source.
    ```bash
    az identity federated-credential create \
        --name <Give the federated credential a unique name> \
        --identity-name "<Name of the User Assigned Managed Identity>" \
        --resource-group "<Your Resource Group>" \
        --issuer "<The Issuer URL from your AKS cluster OIDC configuration>" \
        --subject system:serviceaccount:"drasi-system":"source.<Name of your Source>" \
        --audience api://AzureADTokenExchange
    ```


##### Related links
* [What are managed identities for Azure resources](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity/managed-identities-azure-resources/overview)
* [What are workload identities](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/workload-id/workload-identities-overview)
* [Azure AD Workload Identity Docs](https://azure.github.io/azure-workload-identity/docs/introduction.html)
* [Deploy and configure workload identity on an Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) cluster](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/workload-identity-deploy-cluster)
* [Use Microsoft Entra Workload ID with Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/workload-identity-overview)


## Inspecting the Source

You can check the status of the Source using the `drasi list` command:

```text
drasi list source
```

This will return a simple list of all Sources in the current namespace and their overall status. For example:

```
        ID          | AVAILABLE
--------------------+------------
  my-source         | true
```

If an error has occurred during the creation or operation of a Source, the `AVAILABLE` column will contain the error text instead of `true` or `false`.

For more details about the Source you can use the [drasi describe](/reference/command-line-interface#drasi-describe) command:

```text
drasi describe source my-source
```

This will return the full definition used to create the Source along with more detailed status information.


## Modifying the Source
To modify the Source, you can simply use the `drasi apply` command again with the same source name that you used before.

## Deleting the Source
To delete a Source you use the `drasi delete` command. There are two ways to do this. 

Firstly, you can specify the type of resource (Source) and its name, for example:

```text
drasi delete source my-source
```

Secondly, you can refer to the YAML file(s) that contain the definitions used to create the Source(s):

```text
drasi delete -f my-source.yaml <file2.yaml> <file3.yaml> <...>
```

This is a convenience, especially if a single YAML file contains multiple Source definitions.
