docs/content/how-to-guides/operations/observability/_index.md, before:


---
type: "docs"
title: "Configure Observability"
linkTitle: "Configure Observability"
weight: 50
description: >
    Configuring platform observability
---


## Setup metrics

Custom metrics are collected by [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/), to enable this, install Prometheus into your Kubernetes cluster.  By default, the operator will configure Prometheus to scrape metrics from the OpenTelemetry collector.
To publish custom metrics, use the [Prometheus client library](https://prometheus.io/docs/instrumenting/clientlibs/), and push them to `http://otel-collector:4317`

- JavaScript - https://github.com/siimon/prom-client
- C# - https://github.com/prometheus-net/prometheus-net

### Install Prometheus

```
kubectl create namespace dapr-monitoring
helm repo add prometheus-community https://prometheus-community.github.io/helm-charts
helm repo update
helm install dapr-prom prometheus-community/prometheus -n dapr-monitoring
```

To explore the metrics, forward a port to the Prometheus server to your local machine.

```
kubectl port-forward services/dapr-prom-prometheus-server 82:80 -n dapr-monitoring
```

In your browser, go to http://localhost:82 and you will see the Prometheus UI.

## Setup tracing

Traces are sent by the Dapr sidecar to Zipkin.  To enable this, install Zipkin in your Kubernetes cluster.

### Install Zipkin

```
kubectl create deployment zipkin --image openzipkin/zipkin
kubectl expose deployment zipkin --type ClusterIP --port 9411
```

To explore the traces, forward a port to the Zipkin server to your local machine.

```
kubectl port-forward svc/zipkin 9411:9411
```

In your browser, go to http://localhost:9411 and you will see the Zipkin UI.

Commit message:

Observability and drasi init docs

docs/content/how-to-guides/operations/observability/_index.md, after:


---
type: "docs"
title: "Configure Observability"
linkTitle: "Configure Observability"
weight: 50
description: >
    Configuring platform observability
---

The `--observability-level` flag in [drasi init](/reference/command-line-interface/#drasi-init) simplifies setting up various types of observability infrastructure in a Drasi environment. This page describes the different components that can be installed using this flag and explains how to use them.

## Observability Level: None
No observability infrastructure will be deployed if `--observability-level` is set to `none`. This is the default value for this flag.

You can deploy observability tools using `kubectl`. The Drasi system sends metrics and traces to `http://otel-collector:4317`, assuming the OpenTelemetry Collector pod is in the same Kubernetes namespace as Drasi and is exposed through a Kubernetes Service named `otel-collector`.

## Observability Level: Tracing

When `--observability-level` is set to `tracing`, [Grafana Tempo](https://github.com/organizations/drasi-project/settings/actions/runners), a [Grafana Dashboard](https://grafana.com/grafana/dashboards/) and the OpenTelemetry Collector are deployed to the namespace where you installed Drasi.

To explore the traces, forward a port to the Grafana dashboard to your local machine using the command: 

```bash
kubectl port-forward svc/grafana -n drasi-system 3000:3000
```

In your browser, navigate to `http://localhost:3000` to use the Grafana UI. To login to the dashboard, use `drasi` as both the username and the password.

Navigate to the `Explore` tab in the left sidebar and select `Tempo` in the main screen. You can now execute TraceQL queries against Tempo to retrieve the traces for Drasi. You can also utilize the `Search` tab to navigate and build your query.

## Observability Level: Metrics

When `--observability-level` is set to `metrics`, [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/), a [Grafana Dashboard](https://grafana.com/grafana/dashboards/) and the OpenTelemetry Collector are deployed to the namespace where you installed Drasi.

To explore the metrics, forward a port to the Grafana dashboard to your local machine using the command: 

```bash
kubectl port-forward svc/grafana -n drasi-system 3000:3000
```

In your browser, navigate to `http://localhost:3000` to use the Grafana UI. To login to the dashboard, use `drasi` as both the username and the password.

Navigate to the `Explore` tab in the left sidebar and select `Prometheus` in the main screen. You can now execute queries agains Prometheus using the query builder.

## Observability Level: Full

When `--observability-level` is set to `metrics`, [Grafana Tempo](https://github.com/organizations/drasi-project/settings/actions/runners), [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/), a [Grafana Dashboard](https://grafana.com/grafana/dashboards/) and the OpenTelemetry Collector are deployed to the namespace where you installed Drasi. Refer to the sections above for details on using each component.
