docs/content/media-coverage/_index.md, before:

---
type: "docs"
title: "Media Coverage"
linkTitle: "Media Coverage"
weight: 90
description: >
    Learn about Drasi through press articles, blog posts, presentation and other coverage
---

## Blog Posts

| Title | Source | Date |
|-------|--------|------|
|[Drasi accepted into CNCF sandbox for change-driven solutions](https://opensource.microsoft.com/blog/2025/06/10/drasi-accepted-into-cncf-sandbox-for-change-driven-solutions/) | Microsoft Open Source Blog | Jun 10, 2025 |
|[Optimizing Change-Driven Architectures with Drasi](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/blog/linuxandopensourceblog/optimizing-change-driven-architectures-with-drasi/4404675) | Microsoft Linux and Open Source Blog | Apr 17, 2025 |
| [Detect and react intelligently to changes in data with Drasi](https://opensource.microsoft.com/blog/2024/10/22/detect-and-react-intelligently-to-changes-in-data-with-drasi/) | Microsoft Open Source Blog | Oct 22, 2024 |
| [Drasi: Microsoft’s newest open-source project simplifies change detection and reaction in complex systems](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/blog/drasi-microsofts-newest-open-source-project-simplifies-change-detection-and-reaction-in-complex-systems) | Microsoft Azure Blog | Oct 3, 2024 |

## Media Articles

| Title | Source | Date |
|-------|--------|------|
| [Microsoft Introduces Drasi: Open-Source System for Real-Time Event Processing and Automation](https://www.infoq.com/news/2024/10/drasi-open-source-system/) | InfoQ | Oct 18, 2024 |
| [Microsoft Launches Drasi, An Event-Driven Platform For Data Processing](https://www.forbes.com/sites/janakirammsv/2024/10/11/microsoft-launches-drasi-an-event-driven-platform-for-data-processing/) | Forbes | Oct 11, 2024 |
| [Microsoft’s Drasi: A lightweight approach to event-driven programming](https://www.infoworld.com/article/3555078/microsofts-drasi-a-lightweight-approach-to-event-driven-programming.html) | InfoWorld | Oct 10, 2024 |
| [Microsoft just dropped Drasi, and it could change how we handle big data](https://venturebeat.com/ai/microsoft-just-dropped-drasi-and-it-could-change-how-we-handle-big-data/) | VentureBeat | Oct 3, 2024 |

Commit message:

Update Media _index.md to add Absence of change blog (#137)

docs/content/media-coverage/_index.md, after:

---
type: "docs"
title: "Media Coverage"
linkTitle: "Media Coverage"
weight: 90
description: >
    Learn about Drasi through press articles, blog posts, presentation and other coverage
---

## Blog Posts

| Title | Source | Date |
|-------|--------|------|
|[Responding to the Absence of Change in Change-Driven Systems](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/blog/linuxandopensourceblog/responding-to-the-absence-of-change-in-change-driven-systems/4434618) | Microsoft Linux and Open Source Blog | Jul 22, 2025 |
|[Drasi accepted into CNCF sandbox for change-driven solutions](https://opensource.microsoft.com/blog/2025/06/10/drasi-accepted-into-cncf-sandbox-for-change-driven-solutions/) | Microsoft Open Source Blog | Jun 10, 2025 |
|[Optimizing Change-Driven Architectures with Drasi](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/blog/linuxandopensourceblog/optimizing-change-driven-architectures-with-drasi/4404675) | Microsoft Linux and Open Source Blog | Apr 17, 2025 |
| [Detect and react intelligently to changes in data with Drasi](https://opensource.microsoft.com/blog/2024/10/22/detect-and-react-intelligently-to-changes-in-data-with-drasi/) | Microsoft Open Source Blog | Oct 22, 2024 |
| [Drasi: Microsoft’s newest open-source project simplifies change detection and reaction in complex systems](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/blog/drasi-microsofts-newest-open-source-project-simplifies-change-detection-and-reaction-in-complex-systems) | Microsoft Azure Blog | Oct 3, 2024 |

## Media Articles

| Title | Source | Date |
|-------|--------|------|
| [Microsoft Introduces Drasi: Open-Source System for Real-Time Event Processing and Automation](https://www.infoq.com/news/2024/10/drasi-open-source-system/) | InfoQ | Oct 18, 2024 |
| [Microsoft Launches Drasi, An Event-Driven Platform For Data Processing](https://www.forbes.com/sites/janakirammsv/2024/10/11/microsoft-launches-drasi-an-event-driven-platform-for-data-processing/) | Forbes | Oct 11, 2024 |
| [Microsoft’s Drasi: A lightweight approach to event-driven programming](https://www.infoworld.com/article/3555078/microsofts-drasi-a-lightweight-approach-to-event-driven-programming.html) | InfoWorld | Oct 10, 2024 |
| [Microsoft just dropped Drasi, and it could change how we handle big data](https://venturebeat.com/ai/microsoft-just-dropped-drasi-and-it-could-change-how-we-handle-big-data/) | VentureBeat | Oct 3, 2024 |
